>> Maximiliano Firtman: What's
the next step that we,
what's the next thing
that we can add here?
By the way, if you are following along,
just in case, we are now in chapter three.
We were using lazy load.
Now we are chapter three,
lesson three, adding view transitions.
So, let's understand what's the idea.
So every time I'm going to the home,
clicking the details,
I don't see any transition and
also, there is kind of a blink.
Can you see that there is a blink
that appears sometimes so
everything goes white, so it doesn't
look nice from an point of view.
So, there is a way that we have today
to enable view page transitions.
View page transitions, it's something
that it appears, let me see,
I do have a, let me go to, there is a link
here, so I will open the link first.
Here you have the documentation
from the Chrome team that they
were the first one implementing this.
But again,
this is coming to Safari as well.
Right now, it's in the beta, and
it's called the build transition API.
And the whole idea is that when
you change pages or views or
however you wanna call this,
because, remember,
in Vanilla JavaScript,
there is nothing known as a page.
But when we change the route,
the page, a view,
we can animate that change in a simple
way without getting into CSS transitions,
without touching the elements manually,
okay?
So let's see how to do that.
To enable transitions,
you need to go to the router.
The router.js inside services,
is here the one that is changing
the contents on the page
in this particular vanilla
JavaScript Project, okay?
So, it's there where we're doing that.
So we need to find a moment
that is actually here,
line 38 this is the one that is removing
the current page from the DOM and
adding the new page to the DOM,
okay, can you see that?
So this is the the place
where it's doing that.
So it's removing the previous page and
adding the new page.
That's how that works.
Well, here is the part where maybe
we wanna do some change here.
So the first thing that I'm going to do,
are you gonna understand
while a second,
I'm going to wrap this code in a function.
So I will call this function changePage.
Can I do a function inside
the function in JavaScript?
Can I create a function
inside the function?
Because this is a function inside
the function inside an if actually.
Can I do that?
Yes, I know it's not common,
and some people were thinking,
wow what are you doing, but
yeah that's perfectly fine.
It's a local function to the function,
actually.
If you don't like it,
maybe you prefer this syntax.
It's just the same.
Maybe you like that syntax.
It's just the same, okay?
So pick the one you want.
I did that because to enable transitions,
this is how it works.
You say document.startViewTransition.
You pass a function as an argument, and
that function should make all the changes.
So for example,
I should call changePage function.
Let me go back to this one.
I think it's gonna be
easier to understand.
Okay, so why is that?
So when you call startView transition,
the browser is kind of taking
a snapshot of the DOM and how the DOM
looks like on the screen, okay?
It's taking a snapshot.
Then you pass a function and
you do all your changes.
After your function finishes,
the browser will take another snapshot.
It in like an internal buffer, okay?
Of the DOM and how it looks like and
then it will make a visual transition,
between the two snapshots.
Does it make sense?
Yeah, the problem with this
is that if the browser is not
supporting a startView transition.
Then our router is broken because this
will give me an error it's not a function.
So I should check if I do have or
not have startView transition,
so if I do have the API and
this is known as progressive
enhancement as a design pattern.
So if, if it's not there,
is the API is not there, well,
I will just call change space as it
was before, without the animation.
That's why I needed a function.
So I can call it twice,
if the API is there or
if it's not there, okay, make sense?
So just with that change,
I could try to see if something happens.
So let me go back to my,
let's close ToDo masters.
Let me refresh my page.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And now I will get
into details I'm not sure if you recognize
a difference.
Do you see a difference?
From before,
there is a crossfade transition that is
automatically happening
between the page change.
It also works when you use
the browser back and forward buttons,
because that's how our router works, okay?
So I think it's actually pretty cool
that just by calling that function,
you have this behavior.
Let's put it like this so
we can see without the simulator,
so it's better I don't see
that blank moment because
it's freezing the change the previous and
the next part.
Do you have any question at this point?
>> Student: Are there any polyfills
available for that or is it not worth it?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It
can be polyfilled,
to be honest I haven't searched for
a polyfill.
It can be polyfilled with- CSS animations,
but
probably the only thing that you
can polyfill is something simple.
Because now we will start adding
something on the CSS side and
the polyfill will get more complicated
to actually parse that CSS content,
to understand how to do the animation.
So it can be polyfill.
So instead of calling, I mean,
you could start here an animation
using the Animations API,
the normal Web Animations API.
It's also possible, okay?
But let's see how cool this is.
Now I will go to CSS.
And now we will write some CSS.
There is a new pseudo-element, so
double column, view-transition-old,
with a name and view-transition-new that
will be applied to the old and
the new pages.
And we're going to start
talking about root here.
You will explain what this is in a sec but
actually root means the whole animation,
the default animation.
So I can do something and actually I'm
going to probably define one property for
both selectors and
I can define the animation duration.
I can change animation properties,
for example, I can save 4 seconds.
So now, if I refresh,
you can even see the first load,
of course four seconds,
it takes too much, right?
But now I can click there and
I can see the animation slowly fading
in four seconds every time
you make a change there.
So, I mean, it's okay, it's not so bad.
Yeah, maybe five seconds is not good,
okay?
But you can play with different
values until you're happy.
Typically, it's less than half a second.
But take a look at this part, okay?
Pay attention to that part.
Can you see that?
The logo is moving sometimes,
which makes a weird effect.
So we will solve that later, okay?
But before that, let me tell you that
you can customize the animation.
So by default, it's a crossfade, so
one goes out, the other one goes in, okay?
That's the default between
the two snapshots.
But I can customize that, and
I already have one here that actually
was created by the Chrome team,
so it's not my let's go to adding
view transitions this one.
So I'm just going to copy and
paste this doesn't worth the time
to write this from scratch.
Okay, so a lot of web animation
things here going on.
So I'm going to paste this here.
So now this is creating
a keyframe based animation.
This is web animations in CSS, and
then applying different animation from
the old one and from the new one.
So it's changing what
happens with the old one and
what happened with the new one, okay?
so, just by applying CSS here
with the not changing JavaScript,
let's see what happens now.
So, now I have an animation
that is similar to apps.
It's kind of moving around when you
change pages, but we do have a problem.
The header is also moving.
Can you see that?
And it doesn't look nice, right?
So it should, I mean,
the header should stay there.
Can we do that?
Yes, we can.
With this API,
we can create animation groups, or
actually build transition groups.
That's a real name, to do that,
we can do that from JavaScript or
from CSS, but I can do it from CSS.
I can just point to that header but
in my CSS,
we can get it with the header that is
an immediate descendant of the body.
That's actually the HTML element,
if we inspect here,
it's the header inside the body, okay?
Is that one?
To actually separate that one
from the animation group,
we need to change
the view transition name.
And we put any name like main header or
heather any string will
work without spaces.
Any identifier should be
a valid CSS identifier.
If I do that, if I refresh now.
It gives me a 404 because I'm in a URL.
Let's go to Home.
Now you can see that we are not
seeing that animation to the head.
We are still having some thing,
because sometimes appear as a scroll bar,
sometimes we have a scroll bar.
Sometimes we don't have a scroll bar, so
that's why it's kind of moving a little
bit, but it won't happen,
probably on the mobile device.
But anyway,
I'm not seeing that animation anymore.
With that name, now if I want to,
I can even change instead of root,
I can use this ID here, so
I can change the animation.
Remember, I can say 0, or
it can be faster or slower, and
I can change the type of animation.
So I can animate elements
with different animations.
It can get really complex,
as you can understand, probably right?
So, now it's getting better.
There are still not in our final step.
I think you will like
the final step anyway.
You can see that when you are doing
single page applications.
When you apply this design pattern,
it gets a better user experience, okay?
Much better user experience.